Perhaps you have seen Salvation Mountain in the music videos or documentaries.
It appeals to people
Even for people who are not religious, this hill,
covered with a 1.9 million liter (0.5 million US gallons) latex paint ...
in the middle of the sun-drenched Californian desert,
this hill has something.
And it is all the work of one person.
Leonard Knight was a man who, he was kind of lost ...
he drove around, searching for what he could do.
He discovered Jesus, so he had a mission ...
and he started doing things.
He made a hot air balloon, about 200 feet (61 meters),
sewed it all together with praise to God on it.
Brought it here.
The desert eventually took its toll on the balloon,
but he stayed and he built this mountain.
But you have to look at it from a wide perspective to get an impression.
That sand hill, on that side, shows exactly what was here.
A few scrawny bushes and a flat sand hill.
And Leonard has built all this.
He added extra clay, hay bales, whatever, to build it all up.
He went on and on.
He was going to cover the whole thing.
And he never really thought about himself as an artist,
he thought more about himself as someone who simply did his thing.
He was a go-getter.
The original mountain collapsed after three and a half years of construction.
He rebuilt.
He had passion, and that is so beautiful.
28 years of dedication.
Try to dedicate yourself now for 28 minutes somewhere, realistically.
I think about that.
Leonard Knight had no training, no group of people around him.
The technical term for this is art brut. (outsider art / outsider art)
He was not inspired by other people's work ...
... unless you count God.
He was not imitating master artists,
he did not ask for feedback from friends around him.
He just made this, and that resonated with the world.
Years after his death there is a group of people ...
who use their time to maintain his legacy.
We have so many people, they come from everywhere.
I met people from small countries in Africa,
to the whole of Europe, to small floating islands,
and this and that, it's great.
And some people come here for religious things, cool.
Some people come here for beautiful people who take beautiful pictures in a beautiful place,
what - be respectful, and that's cool too.
You get out of it, you do things.
They get off their couches and away from the TV and stuff,
that is ... TV is great, you know, nothing against TV's.
Paint donations that we get, here,
most of them come from the visitors.
They bring a few glances,
a few cans become a few hundred cans.
Imagine that I want to paint that heart.
I would have to wait a long time
until I have enough beautiful red paint to mix to dye the heart.
And then gives so much more satisfaction
if you did it. But the best thing is,
that the paint really comes from the heart, from the people.
Even if this all collapses,
this has inspired so many people, filmmakers, pilgrims and tourists
that it will live on in memories, in photos, and yes, in video clips.
From the moment I knew about this,
I wanted to come here to see it myself.
I started here as a volunteer because
I realized how important it was for everyone who came here.
And so I did more volunteer work,
and in the end they made me kind of a greeting
and I, "Da-the-dah-the-dah."
And then I said, "Can I possibly paint while I'm greeting?"
"Oh yes, go ahead."
"Da-the-dah-the-dah."
And suddenly I am the maintainer
and have I lived here for a year and a half now.
In my heart I am the keeper of this place.
I have tried to paint everything the same and make it beautiful and keep it.
If I fix it, I'll do it right.
If I can not repair it properly, do not fix it yet, leave it alone,
Leave it alone until you can do it well.
The biggest thing is: it's all about love.
Leonard's love was God, and his relationship with Jesus.
But all forms of love are great.
For example, these people all like driving around and hanging out, doing things.
That makes everything better.
We do not think about all the stupid mess in this world.
And you know what? Then the stupid mess in this world becomes
really the stupid mess in this world
and that has no expressiveness.
There are not many places in this world where it is good,
and where nothing is expected of you.
We hope that you donate money to us
because that's how we do it, but if you do not, cool!
We still have free souvenirs, and there are constantly things going on.
But if you come here on a Saturday, you get to see what this is really about.
It's just crowded with people who like it,
respecting the mountain, respecting each other, it is great!
Some people would say that it is divine inspiration.
Some people would be more cynical and someone should have done it.
Of all millions, maybe billions of people
who have ever tried to make art without experience and without training -
yes, statistically someone had to win the jackpot.
But it's hard to be cynical ... here.
So I took a few cans of paint as part of my own pilgrimage,
because what appears,
I want to help preserve this.
NL translation: Lucas / hrnbouma